---
layout: page
title: Truong Tran resume
permalink: /resume/

---

**Trần Văn Trường – Embedded Software Engineer**{: style="color: LimeGreen"}<br/>
Location: Ho Chi Minh City<br/>
Email: [truong@rtos.dev](mailto:truong@rtos.dev)<br/>
Blog: [rtos.dev](https://rtos.dev/) <br/>
(updated as of Nov 2024)

***

**Core Value:** Professionalism, Integrity, and Passion

### *SKILLS*{: style="color: LimeGreen"}

* Strong knowledge of the software development life cycle in embedded system.
* Be strong in requirement engineering.
* Programming: C, Assembly, Python, batch, shell.
* Intensive expertise in PowerPC, Tricore and ARM Cortex-M MCUs.
* Handful experience with multicore/concurrent systems (between cores and coprocessor, between HSM and host).
* Decent knowledge in RTOS, Embedded System Memory, compiler/builder.
* Domain knowledge: Automotive, Functional Safety, Cryptography (**NOT cryptocurrency**).
* Proficient in using lab equipment, expert user of Lauterbach debugger.
* Mentoring and training capabilities.

---

### *EXPERIENCE*{: style="color: LimeGreen"}<br/>

**Hybrid Controls Vietnam** - ***Software Engineer***<br/>
*OCT 2019 – JUN 2024*

* Led the development of multiple software platforms for various ECU hardwares, including Engine Controllers, Gateways, and Battery Management Systems. These software platforms encompass commercial RTOS, our in-house complex device drivers, and third-party software stacks (e.g., FNET).
* Provided technical consultancy services to OEM and interim departments.
* Technical point-of-contact for numerous topics.
* Led HSM firmware development.
* Led the development of secured bootloader with HSM (Hardware Security Module) integration.

**Hybrid Controls Inc.** - ***Independent Contractor***<br/>
*JUN 2019 - SEP 2019*

* Developed multicore specifications to leverage the potential of multicore architectures (2 computational cores and one I/O core).
* Created functional safety specifications by utilizing delayed lockstep core, Fault Collection and Control Unit (FCCU), and System Basis Chip (SBC).

**Excelpoint System Pte, HCM office** - ***Field Application Engineer***<br/>
*NOV 2018 – MAY 2019*

* Served as a dedicated FAE for Microchip and Atmel product lines in the Vietnamese market.
* Consulted clients throughout the product development process, specifically in semiconductor components.
* Engaged with semiconductor vendors to stay updated on cutting-edge technologies and provide customers with technical insights.
* Assisted the sales team with pre-sale and post-sale activities.

**Energy Meter project** – ***Full-time Freelancer***<br/>
*AUG 2018 – DEC 2018*

* Collaborated with a team of 4 engineers to successfully complete a critical project.
* Implemented COSEM/DLMS software stack in accordance with IEC 62056-62/53.
* Designed and implemented bootloader for firmware update functionality.
* Enhanced software performance by fine-tuning communication protocols (I2C, SPI).
* Conducted compliance testing at the customer's location.

**Bosch Engineering Vietnam** - ***Embedded SW Engineer***<br/>
*JUL 2015 – JUL 2018*

* Dedicated to a US customer project with significant project-wide impact.
* Developed a software platform for Engine Control Unit with handful of complex device driver and communication driver. Those noncomprehensive list of SW component are accelerometer, thermocouple, Flexray, RS485, LIN, CAN,... which are comply with AUTOSAR standard  in multicore environment. 
* Contributed to system requirement, software architecture design.
* Demonstrated the complete software platform to the customer.
* Served as the technical contact point.

**Renesas Design Vietnam** - ***Embedded SW Engineer***<br/>
*SEP 2014 – JUL 2015*

* Being responsible for and being influent to my-self only.
* Ported and developed benchmark tools (Memory busload and OS latency) for QNX platform running on Renesas's SoC.

***

### *EDUCATION & CERTIFICATE*{: style="color: LimeGreen"}<br/>

**Certified Professional for Requirement Engineering - Advanced Level Requirements Elicitation**<br/>
*Certificate ID*: [24-CPREAL-P-E-252504-20](https://cpre.ireb.org/en/service/cpre-registry-list/16828)

**Bachelor of Science in Physics** – ***Honor program***<br/>
*2010-2014*: **University of Science, Ho Chi Minh City**

***

### *OTHER FUN FACTs*
* Occasionally contribute to opensource project (example: FNET TCP/IP, PSA Crypto API).
* NOT GOOD at data structure and algorithm, but in love with functional programming.
* Had the lowest Codility score in the department, but I wrote startup-code for numerous MCUs using assembly and linker script.

***